Most applications need to process or store data for later use.
Relational databases like Oracle,
Postgres, MySQL etc, serve this purpose.
However, database administration is hard, and time-consuming,
and often requires specialized skills,
or if you don't have a specialists it takes time away from
developers responsible for building applications.
Database administrative task include; upgrades, patching,
installs, backups, monitoring, performance checks, and security, etc.
RDS or the relational database service,
is a service that aids in the administration and management of databases.
RDS essentially sits on top of your database to help you manage
your database by automating time-consuming administrative task.
RDS is able to manage popular database engines like Oracle,
Postgres, MySQL, MariaDB, and SQL Server.
RDS even supports Amazon's proprietary relational database engine,
Aurora which supports MySQL and Postgres.
RDS provides features like fail over and backups, restoration and encryption,
security and monitoring, data replication,
and the ability to scale across a global footprint.